QUICK BACKSTORY

Funnily enough, the game was recommended to me by Youtube's algorithm some years ago. It served as my pleasure drug, a sort of solstice per say in the sense that although I don't have the capability of running the game(blu-I Didn't have a PC at that time), I was still able to watch other people play the game instead. 
Though some time after getting my first laptop, I played the heck out of it. Running simulations of my desires inside the game and watching and observing how factors would affect my preplaced objects, leading to where I am today. 
A Retelling of my Experience With The Game for around a few years now.

THE GAME
It would be more accurate to view the game as a "Story Generator" rather than an actual game, since Rimworld is a colony simulator as well as a base builder which basically means that you get to run an actual colony of "pawns" (-blu controllable disposable people -blu) to build the base of your dreams!
Now we have established that Rimworld is a Story Generator, but what does that mean for us? 
Essentially, the flow of the game is controlled by an Artificial Intelligence titled "The Storyteller" and everything is dictated by this, ranging from;
Sickness and Illness Frequency,
Raid Danger Levels, 
Fortutitious Encouters,
Mental Breakdowns and Catharsis,
Animal Spawnrates and Personalities, 
and So Many other factors.

There are also a variety of Storytellers to choose from therefore it is important to choose the type of storyteller you'd want to dictate the progression of your colony based on what you envision.

All of these elements combined, from being a colony simulator with base building mechanics, as well as a unique implementation of AI to give life to your colonies bringing forth a form of story for you to play with or enjoy is what Rimworld is.

THE EXPERIENCE

As with all games, I personally like to lower my expectations contrary to the game's reputation or reviews as it would help me view it in an objective sense so when I saw the gameplay being so minimalistic and the graphics being so bland I thought that it would be a low quality product made by some random developer in their off time.

I booted up the game, keeping in mind my previous evaluations of it based from what I have watched during my freetime. The main menu looked simple as heck, though I quite liked the game's artwork style and the music was soothing in some way.

It felt like the game was preparing me psychologically of the horrors of the possibilities present within the game (-blu more on that later), but I had no idea of that at the time.

CONCLUSION

Surprisingly, the game exceeded my expectations (-blu I know I already set them low but still that deserves commendation-blu) as the simplicity in the game's mechanics breeds a myriad of complex scenarios due to the many factors affecting the gameplay. The game's design wherein its complexity lies in the simplicity of it wherein even for a complete beginner in this genre of games could easily be able to start off and go wild.

My Experience with the game, in my uncouth youth watching it develop and progressively get better with each new update slowly bringing it together to what it is today is something that's personal to me and so, I'll be writing this to put it in stone per say as a reminder to my future self of all the good times this game has given me.

Experience Rating: Humanskin out of 10.

ENDNOTE
Tylan Sylvester, Rimworld's Sole Developer, is Goated as hell.
Go buy the game on Steam(-Link it to Steam)




